- [Instructor] In the previous demo
we tried to use the FixedThreadPool
on the executor's utility clause.
However, the executor framework allows
you to create different kinds of pools.
Let's take a very quick look at that.
So instead of the newFixedThreadPool,
you can also say newCashedThreadPool.
Cashed Thread Pool primarily is an expandable pool,
so whenever you need more tasks,
more threads will be created in this pool.
If there are threads that are available out
of the previous tasks execution completion,
then those threads can be utilized,
or re-used as we say.
Okay, so that's a Cashed Pool, that's another variation.
And then you also have newWorkStealingPool.
So, this is actually a part of the fork join implementation
and fork-joined implementation is not something
that we are looking at in this course,
but of course if you want something
of kind of fork join you should be looking at that pool.
Right, in addition to the Fixed Thread pool,
or maybe the Cashed Thread pool,
or the Work Stealing pool,
or of course you have the single thread executor as well,
where you just have a single thread doing all your tasks,
there are also overloaded versions of these factory methods.
For example, look at this.
When I say newFixedThreadPool
I have two methods, so overloaded.
One which only takes the number of threads,
and the second which takes the number of threads
along with the thread factory instance.
Now what is this thread factory?
So what happens is that whenever you talk about
the executor framework,
the executor framework is always going to create threads
from a factory.
If we don't specify the factory, like that,
you're only specifying the number of threads,
in this case, the default thread factory from
the implementation will be used.
However, if you want to create your own thread factory,
you can do so and then instead of using this version
you actually can use the version
which takes the thread factory as another argument,
that's completely doable.
We're going to talk about thread factory in
our upcoming videos, do not worry about that.
But right now, just remember that
when it creates a thread pool the framework
at that point in time would actually puts the threads
in the pool using a thread factory implementation,
which is already present within the framework, right?
Similarly, if you take a look at the Cash thread pool,
that also comes as an overloaded method which
will accept the thread factory instance, right?
So those are the variations of the methods that we have,
however right now we'll just stick to the newFixedThreadPool
and specify the number of threads as three.
Okay, another point to observe here is,
when you submitted the task, the output of it came under
the future object, we've already known this that
the framework will allow you to capture the output of a task
inside the future, right?
And we said future.get, now please understand
that future.get is a blocking operation.
Blocking operation in the sense the main method
is going to be blocked until it gets the future value
for sure, okay?
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to run this demo again and we'll observe the output.
Let's run this file.
Do you see that it is trying to print
the result of the operation, which is basically
the future.get call?
And after all the future.get calls out over,
then I get the Main execution over statement, right?
Which is at the end.
That essentially means, that until an unless,
it gets all the futures,
it's not going to execute the main method,
or basically it is not going to resume
the main method execution.
That's the point.
So sometimes it maybe a real pain in order to keep waiting
'til you get all the future objects have a level.
Which is why there is
an overloaded version of the get method,
let's take a look at that, that's the one,
which helps you to specify a timeout period.
So this timeout will signify the waiting period
for the block, okay?
So that timeout is the time for which the operation
of the main will be blocked,
you know main will not be able to resume its execution.
So what we'll do is, we'll test this out without the get
so that we make it very clear to ourselves.
So I'm going to take the quote
from line number 37 up 'til 43,
and get rid of this.
We don't want to capture the future object, okay?
Let's not do this.
Let's just submit the task that we want to execute.
Let's go to the database,
get rid of the users so because
we're going to run the use case again, okay.
Now, let me run this.
Yeah, do you see what happened?
There's a difference in the output.
The main execution over statement actually got executed,
which means the main thread was not blocked anymore.
Right, that's exactly what happens
when you do not use future.
So at times you really need the future object because
you want to capture the value.
In those cases you can do by capturing the future object.
You can do that.
However if you think that
there's no waiting period required,
might as well skip that and just submit your task
and get the job done, okay?
Alright, so we've seen the executor service,
we've seen how to use the factory methods
that's on line number 32,
then we saw how to submit a task on line number 36,
we saw how to shut down the service,
We are going to talk more
about shutdown in the subsequent video.
You've almost seen the basic utility of
the executor service object.
Going ahead we'll look at the other APIs.